# Rust API for qkd014_server_gen

ETSI GS QKD 014 REST-based Key Delivery API.

Security: SAEs connect to KMEs over HTTPS (TLS 1.2+) with mutual authentication.
The KME authenticates each request and identifies the calling SAE ID based on the
client certificate. The API does not define a caller-supplied SAE-ID header.

Methods:
  - Get status
  - Get key
  - Get key with key IDs


## Overview

This client/server was generated by the [openapi-generator]
(https://openapi-generator.tech) project.  By using the
[OpenAPI-Spec](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification) from a remote
server, you can easily generate a server stub.

To see how to make this your own, look here:

[README]((https://openapi-generator.tech))

- API version: 1.1.1
- Build date: 2026-02-23T15:32:24.242381148+02:00[Europe/Riga]
- Generator version: 7.20.0



This autogenerated project defines an API crate `qkd014_server_gen` which contains:
* An `Api` trait defining the API in Rust.
* Data types representing the underlying data model.
* A `Client` type which implements `Api` and issues HTTP requests for each operation.
* A router which accepts HTTP requests and invokes the appropriate `Api` method for each operation.
* A CLI tool to drive basic API operations from the command line.

It also contains an example server and client which make use of `qkd014_server_gen`:

* The example server starts up a web server using the `qkd014_server_gen`
    router, and supplies a trivial implementation of `Api` which returns failure
    for every operation.
* The example client provides a CLI which lets you invoke
    any single operation on the `qkd014_server_gen` client by passing appropriate
    arguments on the command line.

You can use the example server and client as a basis for your own code.
See below for [more detail on the examples](#using-the-generated-library).

## CLI

Run the included CLI tool with:

```
cargo run --bin cli --features=cli
```

To pass in arguments, put them after `--`, for example:

```
cargo run --bin cli --features=cli -- --help
```

See the help text for available options.

To build a standalone tool, use:

```
cargo build --bin cli --features=cli --release
```

You'll find the binary at `target/release/cli`.

## Examples

Run examples with:

```
cargo run --example qkd014_server_gen-<client|server>
```

To pass in arguments to the examples, put them after `--`, for example:

```
cargo run --example qkd014_server_gen-client -- --help
```

### Running the example server
To run the server, follow these simple steps:

```
cargo run --example qkd014_server_gen-server
```

### Running the example client
To run a client, follow one of the following simple steps:

```
cargo run --example qkd014_server_gen-client GetKey
cargo run --example qkd014_server_gen-client GetKeySimple
cargo run --example qkd014_server_gen-client GetKeyWithIdsSimple
cargo run --example qkd014_server_gen-client GetStatus
```

### HTTPS
The examples can be run in HTTPS mode by passing in the flag `--https`, for example:

```
cargo run --example qkd014_server_gen-server -- --https
```

This will use the keys/certificates from the examples directory. Note that the
server chain is signed with `CN=localhost`.

## Using the generated library

The generated library has a few optional features that can be activated through Cargo.

* `server`
    * This defaults to enabled and creates the basic skeleton of a server implementation based on hyper
    * To create the server stack you'll need to provide an implementation of the API trait to provide the server function.
* `client`
    * This defaults to enabled and creates the basic skeleton of a client implementation based on hyper
    * The constructed client implements the API trait by making remote API call.
* `client-tls`
    * This default to enabled and provides HTTPS support with automatic TLS backend selection:
        - macOS/Windows/iOS: native-tls + hyper-tls
        - Linux/Unix/others: OpenSSL + hyper-openssl
* `conversions`
    * This defaults to disabled and creates extra derives on models to allow "transmogrification" between objects of structurally similar types.
* `cli`
    * This defaults to disabled and is required for building the included CLI tool.
* `validate`
    * This defaults to disabled and allows JSON Schema validation of received data using `MakeService::set_validation` or `Service::set_validation`.
    * Note, enabling validation will have a performance penalty, especially if the API heavily uses regex based checks.

### HTTPS/TLS Support

HTTPS support is included by default. To disable it (for example, to reduce dependencies), you can:

```toml
[dependencies]
qkd014_server_gen = { version = "1.1.1", default-features = false, features = ["client", "server"] }
```

**For server with callbacks that need HTTPS:**
```toml
[dependencies]
qkd014_server_gen = { version = "1.1.1", features = ["server", "client-tls"] }
```

The TLS backend is automatically selected based on your target platform:
- **macOS, Windows, iOS**: Uses `native-tls` (system TLS libraries)
- **Linux, Unix, other platforms**: Uses `openssl`

See https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html#the-features-section for how to use features in your `Cargo.toml`.

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *https://localhost*

Method | HTTP request | Description
------------- | ------------- | -------------
[**getKey**](docs/key_management_entity_api.md#getKey) | **POST** /api/v1/keys/{slave_SAE_ID}/enc_keys | Get keys
[**getKeySimple**](docs/key_management_entity_api.md#getKeySimple) | **GET** /api/v1/keys/{slave_SAE_ID}/enc_keys | Get keys (simple GET form)
[**getKeyWithIds**](docs/key_management_entity_api.md#getKeyWithIds) | **POST** /api/v1/keys/{master_SAE_ID}/dec_keys | Get keys with key IDs
[**getKeyWithIdsSimple**](docs/key_management_entity_api.md#getKeyWithIdsSimple) | **GET** /api/v1/keys/{master_SAE_ID}/dec_keys | Get keys with key ID (simple GET form)
[**getStatus**](docs/key_management_entity_api.md#getStatus) | **GET** /api/v1/keys/{slave_SAE_ID}/status | Get status of keys available


## Documentation For Models

 - [Error](docs/Error.md)
 - [KeyContainer](docs/KeyContainer.md)
 - [KeyIdItem](docs/KeyIdItem.md)
 - [KeyIds](docs/KeyIds.md)
 - [KeyItem](docs/KeyItem.md)
 - [KeyRequest](docs/KeyRequest.md)
 - [Status](docs/Status.md)


## Documentation For Authorization
Endpoints do not require authorization.


## Author



